---
layout: post
title: We're in a golden age of game dev, and it's only getting better
---
I'm a big fan of [Godot](https://godotengine.org/). Not the Samuel Beckett non-character, but the open source, free to use, game engine made by project founders Ariel Manzur and Juan Linietsky as well as a whole host of other devs and contributors. In my mind its powerful yet easy to use nature combined with its completely open source philosophy makes it the perfect choice for the indie dev on the street in 2023. With Godot fast approaching the release of its fourth (very exciting) revision, I’ve been thinking a lot about how the game dev space has been changing, and what those changes mean for the future.

You see, I have a pet theory that we’re entering or maybe allready in the midst of an artistic golden age of gaming.

The main reason I think this is pretty simple; it’s easier now for an average person to just make a game than it has ever been and, importantly, the tools that make this true have been around long enough to prove themselves by being behind titles that have seen success in the big commercial arenas like Steam and the major consoles.

Tools like [Godot](https://godotengine.org/), [Game Maker Studio](https://gamemaker.io/en), [Construct](https://www.construct.net/en) and even the big boy engines like [Unreal](https://www.unrealengine.com/en-US) and [Unity](https://unity.com/) are all available to the would be developer at a low (mostly free) entry point. Most have some sort of caveat on that (such as unreal and unity’s free-until-you-make-it models), but at the end of the day it doesn’t really matter. The point is, it you want to just make a game one day you basically can now, something that wasn’t so true ten years ago. 

And what's more is this is already happening. Over the past decade, the games we’ve loved, the games that have stuck with us are increasingly not just triple A, polished, 100 person team titles, but also games coming out of single person studios or small just starting out teams. No longer do you have to pass through the gauntlet of getting into the industry to make your voice heard and find a space in people’s hearts. Now you can just do that.

Games like *Stardew Valley*, *Celeste*, *Axiom Verge* and *Undertale* have been some of the most impactful titles to come out in the last 10 years, and all of these  where made by a single dev or small team using easily accessible tools that literally just anyone could start using today. Stardew Valley was made by solo dev Eric Barone (aka Concerned Ape) using [Monogame](https://www.monogame.net/), a freely available and free to use framwork for coding games in C# that came out of Microsoft's long abandoned XNA game studio. *Celeste* is a similar story. *Undertale*, possibly one of the most impactful games of the last ten years, was made using Game Maker Studio, a tool that is not only free (or very low cost if you actually want to export your game) but doesn’t require user to be able to code or know any of the behind the scenes technical info that might overwise scare off potential first time devs. And it’s not alone. Big time hits that you’ve actually heard of like *Hotline Miami*, *Katana Zero* and *Forager* share its engine DNA.

And even you if can’t afford the $5.99 a month for game maker and don’t want to sign Unity or Unreal’s novelesque service agreements, Godot, which is completely free and unrestricted, is already seeing success with steam front page worthy games like *Dome Keeper* and *Cruelty Squad*, a list that’s sure to expand with the improvements coming with Godot 4.

The point of this is people have proved it’s possible. And not in a in you sacrifice you cat’s left testicle and pray to the sun god you might be in with a shot way, in a people like me do and have done this way. Someone who enjoyed Stardew Valley might have might have a casual google to find out how it was made. Within a matter of minutes (assuming they have download speed with some impressive cajohones) they can be hands on with the tools that where used to make it, maybe even start making there own Stawdew Valley. The important two important things here are the exposure these tools are getting and the confidence potential devs can have in them, given other devs have already been down these roads and enjoyed succsess both comercially and artistically.

It’s basic maths really. More people making games equals more games equals more good games. It also equals more types of people making games, more perspectives in game development and more issues being talked about. These the conditions in which art thrives and in which the best art is made. Gaming has often been viewed as a second class art form and this explosion in creativity is, I think, set to change that. The future looks set to hold some absolute classics and I can’t wait to play them.