---
layout: post
title: NSO does't change anything about retro emulation. In fact, it only makes the emulators we allready had more important than ever.
---

With the announcement that Nintendo's expanding it's line up of retro emulation options to include Gameboy, Gameboy Colour and Gameboy Advanced titles, you might think the future isn't looking so bright for community made alternatives like mGBA. As more titles get added to the service, why would anyone still take to high seas to hunt down ROMs? Why go through the often technical and poorly documented set up processes when it's all on Switch just waiting to be played? Why bother trying to find some sort of sensible platform to set up in your living room when Nintendo's alternative is already in the dock waiting to be played?

Often the answers will point users in the direction of NSO, and most of the time they'd be right to do so. NSO offers a vastly more convenient option. There's cloud saving, a simple, easy to use UI, no cryptic settings to work out and no obscure technical files to hunt down. But there's still a room for the old ways. Quite a lot of room actually.

Perhaps the most obvious point is that the only people in control of what games make their way onto NSO are Nintendo. That immediately restricts the potential titles to a relatively small pool. They don't have the rights to everything for a start and while corporate negotiations and deals might rescue some titles form copyright vaults, they won't get everything. That's assuming that Nintendo even wants to put those games up on their service anyway. They're a company pretty well known for perplexing decisions on the ips that get their attention so who knows what titles are going to be lucky enough to catch the big N in a charitable mood. Even without that, NSO is, at the end of the day, a business. It's purpose isn't to preserve the classics, it's to make a profit from them; Nintendo aren't going to put out any titles that muddy the quality are marketability of there service. You can see by the way the UI's designed for these services that there's a pretty hard limit on how many titles are coming; with no search, no categories and limited organisation options navigating a large library would be a nightmare. They're not going waste valuable menu real estate, marketing potential and any labour involved in getting the game to work on something that won't bring in new paying customers.

And it's not just gaming history that benefits the availability of all titles, users are better off too. Even if you couldn't care less about whether every one forgets about Shrek Fairytale Freakdown for the Gameboy Colour, people that played had the actual console likely have beloved memories with at least one game unlikely to see the NSO treatment. Even if the game's terrible, hard to play or just plain weird, it's important that a person has access to the pieces of media that defined them.

Something that seems obvious is that NSO is an online service that will, presumably, end one day. Even if Nintendo carry it with them onto future console (as they likely will) what's to say the Switch is always going to be supported? What if they decide that no-ones playing Gameboy games and it's not worth the server cost to support that anymore? The fact is with NSO your ability to play these games is at the whim of Nintendo, and they can take them away at any time. Besides that, you have to pay a fee indefinitely to access these titles. What if your fortunes change and you can't afford it anymore? All your hours spent in Game and Watch Gallery will be trapped with the big N forever.

These are problems that only community made emulators can solve. Any services offered by a corporate entity are going to subject to at least some of the same issues as NSO. It's just not possible for a company to secure the rights to every single title released for a console, and the live service model is proving just to tasty for most companies to put down. Cutting out the middleman and removing the corporate element from the equation entirely is the only way to ensure the games from our past are still available and playable for ever. The fact is, you can't shut down something that the internet made together; even if a rights holder gets power hungry, it's just going to pop up again or the devs will just move on and bring there expertise to something else similar. The bring your own ROMs nature of this type of software combined with the sheer size of the internet means that whatever obscure game your looking, someone's going to have tread that path before you and has all the ingredients waiting somewhere online. 

The fact is, emulation as we've known it for decades now is here to stay. And the best thing? There's nothing anyone can do about it. In an industry often marred in copyright issues and struggles of licensing limbo, there's at least a small somewhere where you can forget all about that and just enjoy the games you love. 